Title: Data, data & more data. But how to display it all?
----
Subtitle: Data can get tiresome and boring. The way it is often displayed is an eyesore to all, especially designers.
----
Type: Note
----
Date: 23-06-2012
----
Category: Graphic Design
----
Text: 

###A look at how complex and simple data can be crunched into a graphic for greater clarity.

Last week I finished up a research project for University. We were given range of anything that interests us and I chose to base it on how Steve Jobs became an idol to so many. The research took around 3 weeks, where I came across a range of triggers in his life and career that made him become a cult figure.

The most interesting trigger I found was the way he made himself into a brand. His use of one uniform (as he put it) for every purpose of every day made him instantly recognisable. This brand he created was deliberately placed under the wing of Apple’s own. Making him the soul of company.

Once all of the research had been collected I found myself with all of this data and information. The aim was to crunch it all into a Zine, in a cool way.

###Topic of choice

Zines to me should be personal. They should carry an interest from it’s author or even carry an obsession where they just had to get their passion printed. They are for when somebody wants to shout something but it no particular way, it’s for themselves but others can read it.

I decided to use the trigger of Steve Jobs’ clothing changes and decided this would be the soul topic for the Zine. The topic ‘Evolution of Steve Jobs’ Attire’ is niche, it’s slightly strange and it’s a relatively small topic. Perfect for a Zine. It would never make it into an entire book – it’s just too narrow. To many people, I’m sure, it’s not particularly interesting.

###Infographics + data

Data can get tiresome and boring. The way it is often displayed is an eyesore to all, especially designers. This led me down the pathway of trying to figure out the best possible way to display this data. The Zine had to appeal to people who would prior to reading, would have no interest in the way Steve Jobs’ clothing changed.  Another reason for making the info graphics interesting without the need to actually care about the data.

Humour, colours and clarity. These were the three key points to the design style. I wanted to avoid labels where possible. This mean if there was no need for a key, then cut it out. I tried to use a limited but colourful colour scheme for each graph.<figure>(image: 01.jpg alt: Photo of the final collection of Zines title: The final collection of Zines)<figcaption>The final collection of Zines</figcaption></figure>
###The Zine itself

The style is minimal and to the point. The front cover tells you the Zine is about Steve Jobs using the minimal amount of lines. I printed six Zines each with a different colour, together make the rainbow that made up the famous Apple logo (up until 1998). One of the great things about Zines is that you can print and edit each one individually if necessary.

Bounded by elastic thread in a saddle-stitch style. The inners are made with thick recycled paper to give the overall texture and feel of quality but still homemade and personal. I wanted to avoid perfect whites and gloss as it would have just been to commercial. A topic like this is so niche it doesn’t fit into normal commercial use.

----