Title: Object, place & scenario: how do our perceptions differ?
----
Subtitle: It’s amazing the contrasts of ideas that people generate from something that is so simple.
----
Type: Note
----
Date: 26.10.2012
----
Category: Photography
----
Text: 

###The brief & aim

Recently, an interesting project was set for us at University. We were split into large groups of around 30 people, each person had to contribute one topic. The overall aim was then to individually photograph each of topic. The topic could be as simple as a leaf to something as spiritual as Freedom. I chose the interestingly uninteresting topic Mundane. It’s something I know can work well in photography, but because it is so simple the eye would be in the detail.

We were encouraged to go beyond our initial thoughts of each topic and seek for different angles from the obvious. For certain topics this would prove difficult, how many angles can somebody take on clouds?

One topic, Footsteps seemed easy at first, it immediately mean’t sand or mud footprints. However, I didn’t want to settle with the first thing that came to my mind. I wanted something that shouted footsteps but at the same have a “Oh yeah!” type reaction. The image I ended up going with was that of a sign situated outside a building site (that I have no idea the meaning of) that shouts Footsteps! Its almost like a warning against dangerous footsteps?

<figure>(image: 01.jpg alt: Photograph that described the 'Unseen Alphabet' title: Unseen Alphabet)
<figcaption>The unseen alphabet</figcaption></figure>

###From the mundane to the magical

The main think I took from this short project was that people really do think in strange wonderful ways and different ways. I see ugly when other people see beauty.

The topic Age was easy to capture walking around the city of Winchester. There is just so much character and age within the architecture of Winchester. However, I wanted to use juxta-position to take the idea of historic medieval heritage of Winchester that it is famous for and place it against a modern day …alternative.

Out of all of the photos I took throughout the three week project, this image of the 70′s flat edged red brick building next to the historical church, had been the most successful. Aligning the windows was key, I wanted to show how the architects who designed these buildings had two different opinions on what was the best choice for the job in hand. I didn’t want to suggest bias, this should be left to the viewer’s opinion of whether the new or old is better.

###The final outcome

The final result were 28 distinctly different images that came together with a similar style. Despite the objects and scenes within the imagery were from different ends of the spectrum, this didn’t mean the style could not bring them all together. The final photographs were displayed in the Winchester School of Art Gallery in 11cm x 9cm format. The outcome being over 3,000 photos on display.

By putting all of the images together it’s great to see the influence that Winchester had. Especially when looking at topics based on landscapes and buildings. The Brick Wall topic saw a burst of oranges and reds from the brick colour found in Winchester. It would have been great to see this same project in a different part of the country where the architecture and landscape is different. How would Bath’s golden Georgian stone compare to the Winchester’s red brick?

----